i'm daniel bird lands in the cal fire
information center with the weekly fire
situation report from Monday July
thirtieth 2012 over the past week
firefighters were kept very busy with
over 225 new fires burned just over a
thousand acres the increased activity
all started early in the week when
roughly 2800 lightning strikes parked
over 70 fires most of those fires were
contained at just some small spots but
if we turn to our statewide fire map you
can see several large fires has started
over the weekend many of which caused by
lightning the largest of those lightning
sparked fires was the gopher fire in
Calaveras County outside the community
of copperopolis we started monday july
twenty third and charged 75 acres on
wednesday two fires ignited around the
same time both in Calaveras and two
wollemi counties the pen fire burned
just outside murphy's in Calaveras
County and burned 134 acres the second
fire was outside groveland in tuolumne
county and has burnt 81 acres is
expected to be fully contained this
Monday the terrain made containment a
struggle for the firefighters on the
ground but their efforts did keep this
fire from growing out of control over
the weekend there were multiple fires
ignited on the plumas National Forest
Cal Fire's assisting the forest service
with those fires the largest of which is
the peak fire north of portola as
charred over 800 acres so far moving up
north to Mendocino County the north fire
sparked Saturday afternoon south east of
ukiah near cal mountain that fire has
burned 385 acres and as a monday morning
is ninety-five percent contained turn
into this week's weather headlines a
drying trend is going to continue across
the state the fire potential will be
high in most areas of northern
california and will be elevated as the
week goes on the fire danger will be
even higher over the northern sierra
this weekend due to some potential
isolated thunderstorms down in southern
california the biggest fire threat will
be in the Sierra Foothills the Central
Coast interior and across current County
mountains due to very dry conditions in
those areas as we experience this week's
warming trend it's extremely important
that we all be extra careful outdoors in
fact over the weekend we responded to
multiple fires all sparked by a
quitman like lawn mowers and we tears
while we want everyone to clear their
dead brush don't do the right thing the
wrong way for tips on how you can do it
the right way and how you can prepare
for wildfires visit ready for wildfire
org that's the latest on the fired
weather in California I'm kind of
relents have a fire say for me
you